# [1484.  Group Sold Products By The Date](https://leetcode.com/problems/group-sold-products-by-the-date/)


Write a solution to find for each date the number of different products sold and their names.

The sold products names for each date should be sorted lexicographically.

Return the result table ordered by  `sell_date`.

The result format is in the following example.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** 
Activities table:

| sell_date  | product     |
|------------|------------|
| 2020-05-30 | Headphone  |
| 2020-06-01 | Pencil     |
| 2020-06-02 | Mask       |
| 2020-05-30 | Basketball |
| 2020-06-01 | Bible      |
| 2020-06-02 | Mask       |
| 2020-05-30 | T-Shirt    |

**Output:** 

| sell_date  | num_sold | products                     |
|------------|-----------|-----------------------------|
| 2020-05-30 | 3        | Basketball,Headphone,T-shirt |
| 2020-06-01 | 2        | Bible,Pencil                 |
| 2020-06-02 | 1        | Mask                         |


## GROUP CONCAT

```sql 
select sell_date , count(distinct product) num_sold, 
    group_concat(
        distinct product separator ',' 
    ) products
from activities
group by sell_date
order by sell_date;
```


## Note - 

`GROUP_CONCAT `- 
```sql
GROUP_CONCAT(
    DISTINCT expression
    ORDER BY expression
    SEPARATOR sep
);
```

The  `DISTINCT` clause allows you to eliminate duplicate values in the group before concatenating them.

The  `ORDER BY` clause allows you to sort the values in ascending or descending order before concatenating. By default, it sorts the values in ascending order. If you want to sort the values in the descending order, you need to specify explicitly the  `DESC`  option.

The  `SEPARATOR`  specifies a literal value inserted between values in the group. If you do not specify a separator, the  `GROUP_CONCAT`  function uses a comma (,) as the default separator.

The  `GROUP_CONCAT`  function ignores  `NULL`  values. It returns  `NULL`  if there was no matching row found or all arguments are  `NULL`  values.

The  `GROUP_CONCAT`  function returns a binary or non-binary string, which depends on the arguments. by default, the maximum length of the return string is 1024. In case you need more than this, you can extend the maximum length by setting the  `group_concat_max_len`  system variable at  `SESSION`  or  `GLOBAL`  level.

[Link](https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-group_concat/)
