# [1527.  Patients With a Condition](https://leetcode.com/problems/patients-with-a-condition/)

Write a solution to find the patient_id, patient_name, and conditions of the patients who have Type I Diabetes. Type I Diabetes always starts with  `DIAB1`  prefix.

## REGEX

```sql
select patient_id, patient_name, conditions
from patients
where conditions REGEXP '\\bDIAB1' 
// \\b - escape sequence for \
// \b - word boundry in regex
```

## Like

```sql
SELECT patient_id, patient_name, conditions FROM Patients WHERE conditions LIKE 'DIAB1%' OR conditions LIKE '% DIAB1%';
```

-   `WHERE conditions LIKE 'DIAB1%' OR conditions LIKE '% DIAB1%':`  This is the condition for filtering the rows. The query retrieves rows from the 'Patients' table that meet either of the two conditions:
    

	1.  `conditions LIKE 'DIAB1%':`  This condition matches rows where the 'conditions' column starts with the string 'DIAB1'. The % wildcard is used to match any sequence of characters after 'DIAB1'. So, this part of the condition will match rows where 'conditions' is exactly 'DIAB1' or starts with 'DIAB1' followed by any characters.
    
	2.  `conditions LIKE '% DIAB1%':`  This condition matches rows where the 'conditions' column contains the string ' DIAB1'. The % wildcard at the beginning allows for any characters before ' DIAB1', and the % wildcard at the end allows for any characters after ' DIAB1'. This part of the condition will match rows where 'conditions' contains ' DIAB1' as a separate word, with spaces before and after it.
    
	By using the OR operator between the two conditions, the query retrieves rows that meet either of these conditions. It will return rows where the 'conditions' column starts with 'DIAB1' or contains ' DIAB1' as a separate word. [Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/patients-with-a-condition/solutions/3853981/pandas-mysql-an-effortless-and-simple-approach-with-comments-and-explanation/)
